.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH Reindex 3 "Tk1.1" "13/Mar/100" "perl/Tk Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
Tk::Reindex \- change the base index of Text-like widgets
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
.Vb 2
\&    use Tk::ReindexedText;
\&    $t1=$w->ReindexedText(-linestart => 2);
.Ve
.Vb 2
\&    use Tk::ReindexedROText;
\&    $t2=$w->ReindexedROText(-linestart => 0);
.Ve
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Creates a new widget class based on \fBText\fR\-like widgets that can
redefine the line number base (normally \fBText\fR widgets start line
numbers at 1), or possibly other manipulations on indexes.
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
The newly-defined widget takes all the same options as the base
widget, which defaults to \fBText\fR.
.SH "WIDGET\-SPECIFIC OPTIONS"
.Ip "Name:   \fBlineStart\fR" 0
.Ip "Class:  \fBLineStart\fR" 0
.Ip "Switch: \fB\-linestart\fR" 0
Sets the line number of the first line in the \fBText\fR widget. The
default \fB\-toindexcmd\fR and \fB\-fromindexcmd\fR use this configuration
option.
.PP
-item Name:   \fBtoIndexCmd\fR  \fBfromIndexCmd\fR
.PP
-item Class:  \fBToIndexCmd\fR  \fBFromIndexCmd\fR
.PP
-item Switch: \fB\-toindexcmd\fR \fB\-fromindexcmd\fR
.PP
These two options specify callbacks that are called with a list of
indexes and are responsible for translating them to/from indexes that
the base \fBText\fR widget can understand. The callback is passed the
widget followed by a list of indexes, and should return a list of
translated indexes. \fB\-toindexcmd\fR should translate from \*(L'user\*(R'
indexes to \*(L'native\*(R' \fBText\fR\-compatible indexes, and \fB\-fromindexcmd\fR
should translate from \*(L'native\*(R' indexes to \*(L'user\*(R' indexes.
.PP
The default callbacks simply add/subtract the offset given by the
\fB\-linestart\fR option for all indexes in \*(L'line.character\*(R' format.
.PP
It would probably be prudent to make these functions inverses of each
other.
.SH "CLASS METHODS"
.Ip "import" 0
To make new Reindex widgets, this function should be called via \fBuse\fR
with the name of the Text-like base class that you are extending with
\*(L"Reindex\*(R" capability.  \*(L'use \fIbase\fR\|(Tk::Reindex Tk::nameofbasewidget)\*(R'
should also be specified for that widget.
.SH "BUGS"
I've used the word \*(L"indexes\*(R" instead of \*(L"indices\*(R" throughout the
documentation.
.PP
All the built-in perl code for widget bindings & methods will use the
new \*(L'user\*(R' indexes.  Which means all this index manipulation might
might break code that is trying to parse/manipulate indexes. Or even
assume that \*(L'1.0\*(R' is the beginning index.  \fBTk::Text::Contents\fR comes
to mind.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Andrew Allen <ada@fc.hp.com>
.PP
This code may be distributed under the same conditions as Perl.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "Reindex 3"
.IX Name "Tk::Reindex - change the base index of Text-like widgets"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "STANDARD OPTIONS"

.IX Header "WIDGET\-SPECIFIC OPTIONS"

.IX Item "Name:   \fBlineStart\fR"

.IX Item "Class:  \fBLineStart\fR"

.IX Item "Switch: \fB\-linestart\fR"

.IX Header "CLASS METHODS"

.IX Item "import"

.IX Header "BUGS"

.IX Header "AUTHOR"

